Intro editors blog post (#1271)
ropensci/roweb3: content/blog/2026-03-20-new-editors/index.md

---
slug: editors2026
title: 'Expanding the Editorial Team: Alec Robitaille and Lucy D''Agostino McGowan Join as Editors'
author:
    - Alec Robitaille
    - Lucy D'Agostino McGowan
    - Yanina Bellini Saibene
editor:
    - Mark Padgham
date: '2026-03-20'
tags:
  - Software Peer Review
  - editors
  - rOpenSci team

> featured: false

Reviewer: true?

> featured: false

Author: ```suggestion
featured: true
```

description: Introducing two new editors for rOpenSci statistical software peer review
params:

>   doi: ""

Author: ```suggestion
  doi: 10.59350/v939m-qkj86
```

---

> At rOpenSci we're continually grateful for the support and engagement of our community who help make our open-source ecosystem stronger, more inclusive, and more collaborative. The [software peer review program](/software-review/) continues to grow, and today we announce that our editorial team keeps expanding:

Author: ```suggestion
At rOpenSci, we're continually grateful for the support and engagement of our community, who help make research open-source stronger, more inclusive, and more collaborative. The [software peer review program](/software-review/) continues to grow, and today we announce that our editorial team keeps expanding:
```

> We're excited to welcome _Alec Robitaille_ and _Lucy D'Agostino McGowan_ as new editors for our Statistical Software Peer Review team. Their expertise and dedication will help sustain and strengthen this program, ensuring that statistical software reviews continue to meet the highest standards of quality, transparency, and impact.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We're excited to welcome _Alec Robitaille_ and _Lucy D'Agostino McGowan_ as new editors. Alec joins our general review team, and Lucy our statistical software review team. Their expertise and dedication will help sustain and strengthen software peer review, ensuring that software reviews continue to meet the highest standards of quality, transparency, and impact.
```
Sorry if I didn't clarify before, but Alex is general, and Lucy is stats. That should fix 😄

Meet our new editors!

## Alec Robitaille

{{< imgtxt src = "/img/team/alec-robitaille.jpg" width = "200" alt = "headshot of Alec Robitaille">}}

> Bio

Author: ```suggestion
TODO: Add Bio
```

> {{< imgtxt src = "/img/team/alec-robitaille.jpg" width = "200" alt = "headshot of Alec Robitaille">}}

Author: ```suggestion
{{< imgtxt src = "/img/team/alec-robitaille.png" width = "200" alt = "headshot of Alec Robitaille">}}
```

{{< /imgtxt >}}

Alec on [GitHub](https://github.com/robitalec), [Website](http://robitalec.ca/).

{{< quote footer="Alec Robitaille" >}}

> 

Author: ```suggestion
TODO: Add quote
```

{{< /quote >}}

## Lucy D'Agostino McGowan

{{< imgtxt src = "/img/team/lucy-dagostino-mcgowan.jpg" width = "200" alt = "headshot of Lucy D'Agostino McGowan" >}}

> Bio

Author: ```suggestion
TODO: Add Bio
```

> TODO: Add Bio

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Lucy D’Agostino McGowan is an associate professor in the Department of Statistical Sciences at Wake Forest University. She received her PhD in Biostatistics from Vanderbilt University and completed her postdoctoral training at Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg School of Public Health. Her research focuses on causal inference, statistical communication, analytic design theory, and data science pedagogy. Lucy can be found blogging at [livefreeordichotomize.com](https://livefreeordichotomize.com/), on Blue Sky [@LucyStats.bsky.social](https://bsky.app/profile/lucystats.bsky.social), and podcasting on [Casual Inference](https://open.spotify.com/show/1L8TqB17Peo7jNgXuPObwi).
```

{{< /imgtxt >}}

Lucy on [GitHub](https://github.com/LucyMcGowan), [Website](https://www.lucymcgowan.com/).

{{< quote footer="Lucy D'Agostino McGowan" >}}

> 

Author: ```suggestion
TODO: Add quote
```

> TODO: Add quote

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
I am so thrilled to join the rOpenSci editorial team! I love the rOpenSci community and mission and am grateful for the opportunity to contribute.
```

{{< /quote >}}

> ## About the Statistical Software Peer Review Program

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## About the Software Peer Review Program
```

rOpenSci's software peer review program brings together volunteers to collaboratively review scientific and statistical software according to transparent, constructive, and open standards. Editors manage submissions, coordinate reviewers, and help guide packages through review to improve code quality, documentation, and usability. 

This program is possible thanks to the many community members: authors submitting their packages, reviewers volunteering their time and expertise, and editors like Alec and Lucy who help managing reviews and maintaining a supportive process.

## Get Involved

Are you considering submitting your package for review? These resources will help:

- About [rOpenSci Software Peer Review](/software-review/);

> - Browse the online book [rOpenSci Packages: Development, Maintenance, and Peer Review](https://devguide.ropensci.org/);

Author: ```suggestion
- Browse the online book [rOpenSci Packages: Development, Maintenance, and Peer Review](https://devguide.ropensci.org/) and [rOpenSci Statistical Software Peer Review](https://stats-devguide.ropensci.org);
```

> {{< imgtxt src = "/img/team/lucy-dagostino-mcgowan.jpg" width = "200" alt = "headshot of Lucy D'Agostino McGowan" >}}

Author: ```suggestion
{{< imgtxt src = "/img/team/lucy-dagonstino-mcgowan.jpg" width = "200" alt = "headshot of Lucy D'Agostino McGowan" >}}
```
